Hey guys, welcome back to the course. So, this lecture, we're going to get even deeper into the concept of an MVP.
We now know the academic sense of what an MVP is,
now we're going ask the question "What is an MVP to a product
manager? Let's first start with what we
established in the previous lecture.
MVPs are minimum viable products, which are basically
experiments that we're going to run to simulate
whether or not people are interested in a new product
or feature we're proposing to build. This primarily
is used as a way to mitigate risk and to save us from
wasting tons of resources building out the full thing.
Risk is defined here on a number of different dimensions,
but the main ones are: risk of losing resources -
resources like time, resources like money,
also things like opportunity cost.
So time, money, and opportunity cost. As a product manager,
are those three things going to be your top priority?
So this is where MVPs don't really match up perfectly
with the role of a product manager.
Now, it's easy to understand why Lean and MVPs
are so important to startups.
Startups in general don't have a lot of resources
and they don't have a huge tolerance for risk.
You might say to yourself,
"Whow, I thought startups are super risky."
Well, yeah, startups do take risks on building their products,
but what happens if that product they build
is adopted by no one - no one shows up,
no one uses it, no one buys it.
Well, in the vast majority of cases, the startup just dies.
So, as far as tolerance goes, if you launch
the wrong product, and that means that you die,
I would say that you have a pretty low tolerance for risk.
And so that's why startups hug the leanness of the MVP pillow.
It's what protects them from the monsters at night that want to throw them into the dead pool of other
failed startups. Now, remember what we said
when we talked about what a product manager is?
Well, product managers primarily exist to manage products,
and that inherently suggests that they're part
of something that is a little bit more established.
In general, if you're a product manager at a startup,
you might have all the roles and responsibilities
of a product manager, but your title is going to be a little bit different.
It'd probably be something like co-founder. Now, the traditional product managers exist in organizations that are a little bit larger
and a little bit more established,
and therefore have a higher tolerance for risk.
Assuming that you already have a product, and it's validated,
and it has product market fit, it's potentially
making money, any experiment or MVP you run
that's tangential to that,
if it fails, it often doesn't endanger the main
product line, the main source of life blood.
That's not to say that a failed MVP experiment might
not critically endanger the company, but when you're
a product manager, you're probably already in an
organization that has at least a little bit of cushion.
The larger the organization, the higher the cushion,
the higher the tolerance for risk, and the more likely
you are to be working on a product that's farther
and farther away from their core product.
Now, imagine you're at Google and you're a product manager - congratulations, they get paid a ton of money. Now,
imagine you run an experiment on a product, you launch it,
and it fails miserably, and you blow a bunch of money.
Do you think that's going to endanger Google?
In very few conceivable scenarios could it ever endanger
that company. As long as it doesn't have to do with that oil derrick of money coming from their search ads, they'll probably be fine.
So as a PM, when you run an MVP experiment,
you're going to try to do it quickly, and you're going
to try to not be wasteful, but you are probably going to
de-emphasize resources as a hard constraint.
If I were to draw this as a graph, on the left hand side,
the Y axis, you would have risk tolerance, on
the bottom, you would have the size of the organization.
As it gets larger,
they have higher risk tolerance, and as their risk tolerance
gets higher and higher, they start replacing
the things that you're traditionally concerned with
in lean and in MVP with other metrics and aspects.
They start caring about other things,
such as their brand or opportunity cost.
Bigger organizations care about things like brand and opportunity cost because they're a bigger deal at a big organization.
Brands for big organizations are big, there's a lot of
inherent value in the brand that they've built
up. Startups generally do not have that problem,
and opportunity cost is another thing that's big
for a company. A company that has lots of resources,
lots of talent, has the option to pursue a lot of
different avenues. For a large organization, they're going to
care a lot less about wasted resources, and
a lot more about things that startups can't even imagine,
such as not being the first company onto a brand new platform
or missing a big trend with one of their product lines.
That's a big deal for large organizations.
Now, the last point I'm going to make, as a product manager,
is that you don't have to think like a scrappy
two-person startup. If you make a new product or feature
and it doesn't work, you will survive to live another day.
And because you are still there,
also keep in mind that failed products can actually benefit you in other ways. Other parts of your organization can absorb the benefit.
So, as a class activity, I'm going to ask you a question,
post in the group discussion with what you would
do. Let's go back to the Google example,
let's talk about Google Glass.
Remember that one? Google launched the notorious facewear called Google Glass, which either turns
you into an object of envy or a target of derision.
Now, as a product manager at Google,
would you have launched Google Glass?
Now, some food for thought. A lot of you guys would say no,
it was a big waste of money, waste of time.
There is the whole glasshole phenomenon,
people really just didn't adopt it.
But I'm going to ask you to think just a little bit about
the other benefits that could have come from Google Glass.
All that money they spent, it barely even dented their
balance sheet, it made no difference to the company
as a whole, but they did get a ton of buzz,
a ton of press, and they enhanced their brand, because they were pushing the envelope, showing themselves
as innovative, and at least "Hey, they're
swinging for the fences and trying something."
So just post in the group discussion, state your case.
Do you agree with me or do you agree with
the standard response, which is no?
All right guys, I'll see you in the next lecture.